 AI is polytheistic, not monotheistic - balajis.com Subscribe Sign in AI is polytheistic, not monotheistic And ten more thoughts on AI. Balaji Aug 03, 2025 548 43 89 Share Here are ten thoughts on AI that I personally find economically useful. Let’s go. First: there is no AGI, there are many AGIs. That is: we empirically observe polytheistic AI (many strong models) rather than monotheistic AI (a single all-powerful model). We have many models from many factions that have all converged on similar capabilities, rather than a huge lead between the best model and the rest. So we should expect a balance of power between various human/AI fusions rather than a single dominant AGI that will turn us all into paperclips/ pillars of salt . Next, AI moves all costs to prompting and verifying. Basically, today’s AI only does tasks middle-to-middle , not end-to-end. So all the business expenditure migrates towards the edges of prompting and verifying, even as AI speeds up the middle. AI is amplified intelligence , not artificial intelligence. Today’s AI is not truly agentic because it’s not truly independent of you. The current crop of agents can’t set complex goals, or properly verify outputs. You have to spend a lot of effort on prompting, verifying, and system integrating. That just means the smarter you are, the smarter the AI is. It’s really amplified intelligence, more than agentic intelligence. AI doesn’t take your job, it lets you do any job. Because it allows you to be a passable UX designer, a decent SFX animator, and so on. But it doesn’t necessarily mean you can do that job well , as a specialist is often needed for polish. AI doesn’t take your job, it takes the job of the previous AI. For example: Midjourney took Stable Diffusion’s job, and GPT-4 took GPT-3’s job. Once you have a slot in your workflow for AI image generation, AI code generation, or the like, you just allocate that spend to the latest model. Hence, AI takes the job of the previous AI . AI is better for visuals than verbal