ble. Now that the dust has settled for a bit, we thought it would be an opportune moment to zoom out and reflect on generative AI—where we find ourselves today, and where we’re possibly headed.&nbsp; Towards Act Two Generative AI’s first year out the gate—“Act 1”—came from the technology-out . We discovered a new “hammer”—foundation models—and unleashed a wave of novelty apps that were lightweight demonstrations of cool new technology.&nbsp; We now believe the market is entering “Act 2”—which will be from the customer-back . Act 2 will solve human problems end-to-end. These applications are different in nature than the first apps out of the gate. They tend to use foundation models as a piece of a more comprehensive solution rather than the entire solution. They introduce new editing interfaces, making the workflows stickier and the outputs better. They are often multi-modal. The market is already beginning to transition from “Act 1” to “Act 2.” Examples of companies entering “Act 2” include Harvey , which is building custom LLMs for elite law firms; Glean , which is crawling and indexing our workspaces to make Generative AI more relevant at work; and Character and Ava, which are creating digital companions.&nbsp; Market Map Our updated generative AI market map is below.&nbsp; Unlike last year’s map, we have chosen to organize this map by use case rather than by model modality. This reflects two important thrusts in the market: Generative AI’s evolution from technology hammer to actual use cases and value, and the increasingly multimodal nature of generative AI applications. In addition, we have included a new LLM developer stack that reflects the compute and tooling vendors that companies are turning to as they build generative AI applications in production. Revisiting Our Thesis Our original essay laid out a thesis for the generative AI market opportunity and a hypothesis for how the market would unfold. How did we do? Here’s what we got wrong: Things happened quickly. Last year, we anticipated it would be nearly a decade before we had intern-level code generation, Hollywood-quality videos or human quality speech that didn’t sound mechanical. But a quick listen to Eleven Labs’ voices on TikTok or Runway’s AI film festival makes it clear that the future has arrived at warp speed. Even 3D models, gaming and music are becoming good, quickly .&nbsp; The bottleneck is on the supply side. We did not anticipate the extent to which end user demand would outstrip GPU supply. The bottleneck to many companies’ growth quickly became not customer demand but access to the latest GPUs from Nvidia. Long wait times became the norm, and a simple business model emerged: pay a subscription fee to skip the line and access better models.&nbsp; Vertical separation hasn’t 